# love2Dgames
This repository contains the code I wrote to create basic games using the Love2D framework and Lua. Each game has it's own folder and each folder contains a main.lua file, which is the code that actually runs on Love2D. 

Blackjack is a game I created with the help of a tutorial to learn about using Lua in the Love2D framework. It is a very simple game where I did not focus on the UI at all, I just wanted to make sure that I created a working blackjack game. 

Once I had learned some of the basic aspects of coding in Lua with Love2D I set out to create Harvest Havoc. This is a game I coded as my final project for Harvard's CS50x Online Course. 

The goal of the game is to harvest fruits that fall from the sky by moving a basket at the bottom of the screen under them. There are multiple fruits and the one you have to harvest changes randomly. Harvesting the wrong fruit or dropping the fruit you have to harvest 3 times in a row makes you lose 1 of 3 lives. Harvesting the correct fruit gives you a point and if you do this continously the amount of points you gain each time increases.

The UI of the game is slightly lacking because I wanted to make sure that all the other parts of the game were perfect. It runs exactly how I wanted to with all the rules I thought of when I was creating the game implemented, as well as some I decided to add along the way. Nonetheless, I worked on quite a few UI features which I thought were absolutely essential in making the game more fun to play. Sound fell under this category and was one of the first things I began to work on once I had a basic version of the game working. I added background music for the game and the main menu, as well as different sound effects for events throughout the game. These sound files can be seen in the harvest_havoc folder. I also decided to add colors which made it easier to differentiate between the different types of fruits. Previously I was using different shapes. I also added images of clouds moving across the background to make it look a little less plain. While this was not absolutely necessary, I thought it was a cool feature. The image files of the clouds can also be seen in the harvest_havoc folder.

UI features that I plan to add to the game are buttons and more images. The menus in the game are all controlled through the keyboard right now and I want to add the option of clicking on buttons. Furthermore, the "fruits" are colored circles, the "basket" is a brown box, and the background is made up of blocks of solid colors. I want to replace all these visuals with cartoon images to make the game look better. 
